-What did you do?
-I treated young women very badly.
You dirty, filthy beast!
You little horror!
FATHER PETER:
Look, she needs you, Michael.
And she needs to
have total faith in you.
I mean, why would you destroy all that
just to clear your own conscience?
And I can't do that...
While I'm hiding an inconvenient
truth of my own.
There are four betting shops
in whole Cross Road.
No bank,
no post office, no chemist,
but four betting shops.
Why four, when everyone
around there is skint?
And in a week or two,
my boss is going to find out.
Please don't kill yourself.
And I will show you how to atone.
Promise me you won't kill yourself.
♪ Broken windows and empty hallways
♪ A pale, dead moon in the sky
streaked with grey
♪ Human kindness is overflowing
♪ And I think it's going to rain today ♪
[MICHAEL BREATHING HEAVILY]
You were a bloody awful mother!
And you, a horrible son.
To scream at your child like that,
to make your hatred so obvious.
Your bed a disgrace,
you dirty little horror.
My dad's not here because life with you,
that was his purgatory.
You are here.
What a hypocrite you are!
Yeah! Hypocrite or no,
I'd never destroy my own child.
Not a child, a dog.
A dirty, stinking dog.
-Something wrong with you.
-You're no big thing.
Something seriously wrong with you.
If you didn't want to see me again,
you tosser, fine.
Everyone said it, that Michael Kerrigan,
what a head case he is!
-You were two sluts.
-[LAUGHS]
-Yeah, two sluts you were.
-It meant nothing to me!
You especially,
chewing all the way through it.
Don't go near that prick,
that's what we told each other.
What did you expect?
How can anyone have respect
for two little sluts like you?
-All that ever mattered to you was that.
-Oh!
Who wants to bring up
an arrogant child, eh?
Slightest sign,
you knock it out of them.
Always at it.
Trouble is you knock out confidence
and ambition
-and pride and self-esteem.
-Always at it.
You made me a self-loathing wreck.
But that's okay,
'cause I was not arrogant.
[TRAIN HORN BLOWING]
You're gonna have to save me.
CHRISTOPHER: What with, you pillock?
-"What with?"
-Yeah.
Can you stop talking over the table,
for God's sake!
Hey, hey! You talk over the table.
-I, I don't. I don't.
-Oh, shut it, Saint bloody Michael.
Every decent chance I've got
of winning a hand, you do!
-You know what I've got, don't you?
-Yeah.
-Right, well, then I repeat, save me.
-And I repeat, what with?
-You've got the ace of spades!
-[ALL SHOUTING]
Why are you telling everybody
what you've got?
I mean, where's the skill in that?
I gave him three cards
at the beginning of this game
and then you gave me three cards.
Same bloody cards, different colour.
The whole point to playing cards is
you don't know what each other's got.
I mean, what's the point
in playing if you do?
You cheating shit!
Where's the skill,
where's the pleasure?
[ALL CONTINUE ARGUING]
I can't lose lead.
-You've had it anyway.
-CHRISTOPHER: That's it, he's home.
You cheating git.
You need to calm down a bit,
you old boy, I tell you that.
-You'd have gone through anyway.
-MICHAEL: Anyway, I've got to get off.
CHRISTOPHER: Mum'll be all right.
Beth's with her.
MICHAEL: It's just that
she's been with her all day,
-so she'll want to get off, so...
-All right.
-And, er, give her my regards.
-MICHAEL: Yep, yep.
-See you, blokes.
-Don't forget your money.
-Yeah, take it steady out there.
-See ya.
Enjoy your winnings.
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
-Hi.
-Hi, I forgot my key.
Michael's here, Mum.
Hiya, Mum. Be up soon.
-How is she?
-Not good.
She won't tell you that
but she's not good.
-Oh, God.
-Who won?
-Guess.
-Bye, Mum.
-Bye.
-See you, ta-ra.
MICHAEL: It was the night Joe played
in the Sheffield and Hallamshire final
and those two coppers came for my dad.
He hadn't paid a fine or something.
[WHEEZING]
[WEAKLY] A court order.
Anyway, the last thing our Joe sees
before he disappears up the street
is Dad getting marched down it
by these two coppers.
But they only take him to the bottom
and they let him go.
Anyway, Dad comes back
and I said, "Why did they let you go?"
And he says, "You can't get blood
out of a stone, son."
[LAUGHS]
But our Joe hadn't seen any of this.
He thinks Dad's in the nick.
So, we're up in the stands
at Bramall Lane.
Me and my dad.
Floodlights and everything.
And the teams come out.
And I'm desperate for Joe to see
that Dad's with me.
So I'm shouting out, "Joe! Joe!"
But Joe can't see
because of the floodlights.
He can hear me, but he can't see me.
So, I start shouting,
"My dad's here! My dad's here!"
[LAUGHS] And everyone in the stands
is looking round at me,
thinking what I'm going on about.
But I don't care, just so long
as our Joe doesn't have to play
the biggest game of his life
thinking me dad's in the nick.
"My dad's here! My dad's here!"
[LAUGHS]
CHLOE: Mum! They're ruined.
Actually ruined.
Dickhead, you're paying for them!
JAKE: Mum told me to do
the washing and I have.
CHLOE: You did it on purpose.
He did it on purpose!
-JAKE: No, I never...
-You did! You sure did.
ROZ: I said separate the whites,
didn't I?
-Didn't I say?
-I did! I made a pile of them.
But they must have been
rolled up somewhere.
-Where you going?
-LEO: School.
-Without eating?
-I'll get something there.
CHLOE: Why did you tell him
to do the washing, anyway?
Because he has to learn.
But he can't even wash himself.
Shut your face right now.
I'm not doing it anymore
and if you have any sense,
neither should you.
So he has to learn.
They have to learn.
[DOOR OPENS]
[DOOR SHUTS]
[TAPPING]
Come here. [CLICKS TONGUE]
There he is.
He's a good boy.
[ENGINE STARTING]
-Where are you going?
-ROZ: Work.
-What? You're not giving me a lift?
-No.
Why didn't you say?
-ROZ: Make sure everything's locked.
-What?
-JAKE: What's she doing?
-I don't know.
What are you doing?
[CHURCH BELLS RINGING]
Brother and sisters,
let us acknowledge our sins
and so prepare ourselves to celebrate
the sacred mysteries.
FATHER MATTHEW:
You're a thief, Kerrigan.
A thief!
What is he, boys?
[CHANTING] Thief! Thief!
A thief!
The school stopped asking me
for dinner money
so I stopped asking my mum for it.
It went on for over a year
and then they realised their mistake
and asked me what I'd done
with all the money.
I said I'd spent it.
Better to be thought a thief
than a pauper.
[SMIRKS]
Yeah. Is that a sin?
I confess to almighty God...
-[PARISHIONERS REPEATING]
-And to you, my brothers and sisters,
that I have greatly sinned,
in my thoughts and in my words,
in what I have done
and in what I have failed to do,
through my fault, through my fault,
through my most grievous fault.
Therefore I ask blessed Mary,
ever virgin,
all the angels and saints
and you my brothers and sisters...
Bernadette Jenkins is here.
She gets the results
of her scan Tuesday morning,
so she's asked us
to remember her in our prayers.
And Helen Oyenusi's with us again today,
which reminds me to remind you
of tonight's candlelit vigil
outside Laurel Road police station.
All are welcome.
Including police officers, Andrew.
No implied criticism here.
WOMAN: [OVER RADIO]
I've kept cats all my life,
Roger, and I've never seen
one of them go for a bird.
And my garden's full of them, Roger,
blue tits, jays, robins.
What I haven't seen, though,
is magpies...
[TELEPHONE RINGS]
Hello, Michael Kerrigan.
It's Roz Demichelis, Michael.
Oh, how are you?
Good, yeah. You?
Yeah, I'm good, thank you.
-What's that?
-Microwave.
I'm, er, doing Singapore noodles.
Is there no end to this man's talents?
[LAUGHS]
Listen, I can see into my boss's office.
He's on the phone.
There's a cheque on his desk for £1,900
payable to Elaine Coombs.
But there is no Elaine Coombs.
Elaine Coombs is me.
If he's on to accounts,
and I think he is,
he'll be getting told that there are
well over a hundred similar cheques,
payable to Elaine Coombs,
all signed by me.
Total's £232,648.
I think he just said,
"I can't believe it."
I think he said it again.
And he's getting off the phone.
He's coming out. He's coming over.
So, yeah, so, erm,
I think that would be...
JAMIE: Can I see you in the office, Roz?
-Yeah. Just finish this call.
-Yeah.
Not to put too fine a point on it,
Michael, but I am fucked.
Can I help?
Can I come see you?
Yes. When?
Well, he's going to sack me
so I've got the rest of the day free.
Unless he calls the police,
but I'm going to ask him
to defer that to tomorrow, so...
This afternoon?
Yeah, 3:00?
Yeah. I'll see you then.
Enjoy your noodles.
What is it?
I'm hoping you can
sort something out, Roz.
I'm praying you can sort it out.
I'll do my best.
Take a look at this.
A cheque's been returned.
-Why?
-No date.
Who's Elaine Coombs, Roz?
Me.
At least one cheque a month,
all for just under two grand
so they don't need countersigning.
How much altogether?
-Didn't they tell you?
-They can only go back six years.
I assume you've been at it
longer than that.
Eight years altogether.
£232,648.
Why?
-I'm a thief.
-No, no, no.
Why?
Why did you steal from me?
What made you do it?
-You want the truth?
-Yeah.
-The idiotic truth?
-Yes.
Coke.
[SCOFFS]
No.
No, large gin and tonic,
you're off your head.
You snort 230k's worth of coke,
I'd notice.
It's gone, Jamie.
I lived the good life for a while
and now it's all gone.
You're lying!
Oh, you look good, Roz.
You always look good,
but I don't believe you've spent
a quarter of a million on yourself
over the last few years.
You've lived in the same house
since the day you married that gobshite.
Your last holiday was
a fortnight in Windermere,
which doesn't exactly count
as an exotic holiday.
You've got a company car!
So where's all this money?
It's gone.
You pay me it back,
I don't phone the police.
You're sacked, yeah,
but no police involved.
You don't pay me back,
you go down, Roz.
And you go down for years.
And if you think it's worth it,
if you think you can just
do a few years,
come out to 200 grand stashed away
somewhere, well, think again.
'Cause they'll be all over you
like a rash.
They go through everything, Roz.
Every penny you spent,
every bloody postage stamp you bought.
They won't let you away with a carrot.
They'll find nothing.
And I'll do my bit, too.
'Cause I want my money back,
I want every single penny back.
And I won't rest till I got it.
I'll be watching you like a hawk.
-It's all gone, Jamie.
-It can't be all gone!
Please, not my face.
[JAMIE BREATHING HEAVILY]
Two hundred and thirty grand
she's robbed, this thieving bitch.
Two hundred and thirty grand!
Police, please.
Can I ask you to wait
till tomorrow, Jamie?
What?
I've got things to do tonight.
What kind of things?
-Things.
-Tough.
With the kids.
I have things with the kids.
[PHONE BEEPS]
Thank you.
Then he told them
that I was the thieving bitch
who'd robbed 200 grand off him.
And I wished he had punched me.
You think he's calling out there?
Yeah.
I do, too.
MICHAEL: There are lots of different
versions of the Stations of the Cross.
Some have Christ falling three times,
some just once. But...
Some end with Christ entombed,
some with him rising.
But no matter what version
you're looking at,
there's one that's never there.
And that's Christ calling out
on the cross in despair,
"My God, my God,
why have you forsaken me?"
I think that's because
they can't handle it.
Christ, the Son of God, in despair.
[LAUGHS] What chance have we got?
But I'd always have that one.
He knew despair. He understands.
You know one of the last people he spoke
to alive, Roz, was a common thief.
He'll speak to you.
He'll be saying,
right up to the very end,
"Choose hope, not despair."
"Life, not death."
[SIGHS]
Er... [SIGHS]
Is there any way you can pay it back?
Have you got any money
tied up in the house?
No.
Convince the judge you can pay it back.
You see, you'd be looking at three years
rather than four or five.
You do half, don't forget.
Get three years, that's only 18 months.
And it's white collar, so you'll spend
most of it in an open prison.
How d'you know all that?
Internet.
[BOTH LAUGH]
I'm grateful, Michael.
I am.
But I'm not going to prison, I'm afraid.
MICHAEL: Why?
I mean, why now?
You've done the hardest bit.
You've faced him and told him.
No, that's not the hardest bit.
It's everyone knowing.
Neighbours, friends.
All wetting themselves with glee.
You said that you've lived with shame,
Michael, but you haven't.
It's guilt that you've lived with,
guilt over the way
you treated those women.
Tell the world
and then, that's shame.
Huh.
Did you tell him it went on machines?
-No.
-Why not?
I'd sooner him despise me than pity me.
Eh.
Would you fuck me, Michael, please?
What?
I think you heard.
I can't.
Though I'm sure it would be
a wonderful experience, but...
I can't.
I'll be dead tomorrow,
so nobody'd know.
I'll be dead tomorrow so,
it's the least you can do.
It's the least any gentleman can do.
Yeah, well, I can't.
You get a lot of offers?
Yeah. Yeah, a few.
You get more wearing the collar, though?
-Yeah.
[BOTH CHUCKLE]
How were you going to do it?
Oh, we're here to talk about you, Roz.
-Was it a train?
-Heh...
Have you got your mobile?
Yeah.
Put my number in, will you?
How were you going to do it?
My number is 07700...
900 481.
Just give it to me again?
Yeah, 07700 900 481.
Right.
Phone me if you change your mind.
If at any point, you change your mind,
early on, late on, very late on,
phone me and I'll get to you.
I won't change my mind.
Well, promise me if you do,
then you'll call me.
I promise.
Where will you do it?
At home, in my bed.
-Will the kids find you?
-No.
No, they'll be at school.
My ex, Paul's, coming over.
He thinks to fix the radiator
in my bedroom. He'll find me.
Please don't do it, Roz.
How many politicians have there been
caught with their fingers in the till?
They're worse than you,
because they're bloody hypocrites.
Laying down the law for others,
breaking it themselves.
They come out of prison
and throw themselves into penal reform
and campaigns for this,
that, and the other.
Prison's the making of them,
Roz, and it can be for you.
Fight them.
Fight those bloody machines
and go to prison and come back out
-and fight them again.
-I can't.
You can!
You can.
Look, there's a meeting tomorrow
down at the council.
-You come along, and we'll...
-No, I can't.
Then let me tell someone about this.
-Let me...
-No!
Will you join me in a prayer?
Yeah.
-Shall we?
-Yeah.
This is Roz Demichelis, Lord.
She doesn't know how much you love her,
how much she matters to you.
Can you find some way of showing her?
Thank you, Lord.
-Amen.
Phone me, Roz, and I'll get to you.
I'll get to you, Roz, I promise.
ROZ: You go to any food bank
and you ask them what they need most,
and they'll tell you pasta.
It's cheap and nutritious.
You can feed an army.
Bit of pasta, bit of sauce.
How long is that now?
-Five minutes.
-Right.
Is there any pink showing?
No.
That's the main thing,
you don't want any pink.
[ROZ SIGHS]
Open the sauce.
Pink inside a steak's fine
but pink in a pan of mince is a no-no.
Right, pour the sauce in.
Put the whole thing in.
-Are you watching this?
-Er, yeah.
I am no longer cooking for you,
do you understand that?
Get that straight,
I am not cooking for you.
So what are you going to do?
Chloe'll do it.
No, she won't.
She will be no man's skivvy.
So, you need to watch
how it's done, yeah?
-JAKE: Right.
-Right.
Okay,
is it boiling?
-Yeah.
-All right, just...
Turn it down and let it simmer.
You don't want to boil it dry.
All right, spaghetti.
How much do you think we need for four?
All of it.
Yeah.
Whack it in.
You think it's bad, yeah?
Yeah.
Well, wait till you taste his pudding.
[ALL LAUGHING]
-What are you doing?
-What?
-For God's sakes!
You don't turn it on until it's full
and it's nowhere near full.
Right, whatever.
Don't talk to me like that.
Running it when it's empty
costs me money.
I'm the one that has to find that.
-It's not empty.
-It's virtually empty, look at it.
-And this, this is just ridiculous.
-[SILVERWARE CLANKING]
Common sense should tell you
that that's just wrong.
-Why?
-Because...
Spoons and forks should face
the same way.
If they face the same way,
they take up less space.
And we want this thing
as full as possible
before we switch it on
because it costs money to run, right?
Right.
So, spoons and forks
the same way in future, yeah?
Yeah.
And what's this?
A plate.
It's filthy. They're all filthy.
That's why they're in there.
No, you rinse them
before you put them in.
There's two reasons for that.
One, if you rinse them before
you put them in,
you don't clog the machine.
Two, we want it as full as possible
before we turn it on, yes?
Yes.
That's been established beyond
all reasonable doubt. Right?
Yes.
So, there's going to be dishes
in here overnight that are dirty.
I don't want them
stinking up the kitchen.
Right.
[SIGHS]
I'm so sick of this house.
And I'm sick of you and him
acting the eejit.
I'm just so sick of it.
-[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
-[SNIFFLES]
Yeah?
LEO: Can I come in?
Yes. [CLEARING THROAT]
What you doing?
Writing a letter to Auntie Jackie.
She's on e-mail.
I know.
She likes getting letters.
I brought you this.
Thanks.
[CLEARS THROATS, SNIFFLES]
Are you all right?
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
[SIGHS]
Right.
[SNIFFLES]
Write.
[LAUGHS] I will.
[SOBS]
♪ ...that saved a wretch like me
♪ I once was lost
♪ But now am found
♪ Was blind
♪ But now I see
♪ 'Twas grace that taught
♪ My heart to fear
♪ And grace my fears
♪ Relieved
♪ How precious did
♪ That grace appear
♪ The hour I first believed ♪
Thanks for this.
So, how are the flashbacks going?
Oh, I'm excelling myself.
Flash forwards these days.
To purgatory.
Cold wind, thin air,
people telling each other bitter truths.
Purgatory is other people.
Thanks.
Someone in confession has told me
she's going to kill herself.
You believe her?
Totally.
I asked her if I could
tell someone about it.
Openly, I mean, and, er, she said no.
What can I do?
Is it imminent?
Tomorrow.
And have you told her
if she changes her mind that...
Yeah, I gave her my mobile number.
[SIGHS]
I used to relish these prospects, Peter.
All those stories of Catholic martyrs
going to their deaths
before breaking the seal
of the confession.
"Yeah, I'll have some of that."
[LAUGHS]
"They might even make me a saint."
But I never envisaged this.
No.
I see it now for what it is,
of course, the seal.
It's a sales pitch.
The best ever,
every religion wishes it had it.
That's all it is, a bloody sales pitch.
"Ten billion confessions heard,
not one revealed.
-"Buy now while stocks last."
-[CHUCKLES]
Tell me I should tell someone.
I'm back on the sugar.
I know.
It's pathetic, isn't it?
I just didn't want you to know.
Yeah. [CHUCKLES]
You see, the thing is,
you could tell someone
and that someone could intervene,
and the likelihood is
the next day she might kill herself.
Only the next day,
she doesn't have the option
to call you because, guess what?
What?
FATHER PETER: You've betrayed her.
Aye.
-Do you know what we should do?
-What?
FATHER PETER: Pray.
I nearly said, "Is that all?"
God forgive me.
BOTH: Lord, lift up our weary spirits...
So that we might find rest
and eternal peace within you.
May we stand on mountains
and walk on stormy seas.
Give us that unspeakable joy
to dance in the rain.
BOTH: Amen.
See you, Mom.
There you go.
Come in.
Good boy.
There we go.
That's my boy. [KISSES]
[SNIFFLES]
Father, it shrunk!
It shrunk!
Oh! Fantastic!
-Oh!
-[CHUCKLES]
Stay with your granny.
There's a good boy.
It's gonna be nice.
Surprise, surprise.
Come in.
Why are you here?
I was hoping you would look
after Woody for me.
Who's Woody?
The dog.
Why? Where are you going?
Work's really busy.
He's on his own too much.
What would I do with a dog?
I thought he could keep you company.
Do the kids not look after him?
They're always out.
You can't just give their dog away.
He's my dog.
They won't even notice.
Will you take him or not?
It'd need walking.
Just for the toilet
and then a little run later.
It's no big deal.
Where would I take it?
Out the back field.
Will you stop saying "it?"
It's a boy.
How long for?
I'm not sure.
A while.
Will you come and see him?
He won't cost you anything.
[SIGHS]
Whatever.
Can he stay?
Yes.
He sleeps upstairs, on the bed.
Is that all right?
-Are you sick?
-No.
Got a fella?
So, what's wrong with...
Nothing.
Make sure you take water
up to bed with you.
And don't feed him shite food
or chocolate.
[WATER RUNNING]
[CELL PHONE RINGING]
Hi.
Where are you?
-Work.
-Nan's been on.
You've given her the dog?
Yeah.
Why?
I don't want to look after him anymore.
Well, I'll look after him.
No, you won't, Chloe.
You'll do it for a week
and then you'll get fed up again.
She says you're acting strange.
I'm acting strange!
What's wrong?
[EXHALES]
Nothing.
Honestly.
Bye.
WOMAN: Are you going anywhere nice?
I hope so.
-What's the alternative?
-Anything.
Well, what exactly? A Harvey Nicks?
I dunno. A charity shop, anything.
Anything but another bloody
betting shop.
You wouldn't even get a charity shop.
Look, there's four
boarded-up shops there already,
-This'll be five.
-Fine.
Better boarded up than
sucking the people dry,
because that's all they're doing.
I'm sorry, Father,
but I'm getting
a little bit sick of this actually.
-Is it all right if I speak my mind?
-Yeah.
Just forget your prayer
that you've said at the start?
Oh, please do.
Okay, well, I'm sorry,
but I'm finding all of this
a little bit hypocritical actually.
These machines are evil
when they're in our betting shops
but they're fine when
they're in your social club, Father.
Two of them, you've got.
I mean, if gambling was so bad,
then how come so much of it
goes on in your parish?
The spot-the-ball,
the bonus ball, the raffle.
You lose that, Father,
and you'd be skint, you know it.
Now, the firm I work for,
it employs 15,000 people.
That's 15,000 wage packets,
on top of rates, corporation tax,
and God knows what else.
You've got to see it's crucial, Father.
First, I'm sorry I've upset you, Jean.
Second, the machines in Saint Nick's
are nothing like those in your shops.
Ours take 10-pence coins,
yours take 10-pound notes.
We'll come back to this,
Jean, if that's okay.
Er, this is Roz Demichelis, everyone.
Now, I hope you don't mind,
but I've invited her along today
because she can speak from
personal experience on this matter.
So, uh...
Isn't that right, Roz?
Yeah.
Yes.
[MICHAEL CLEARS THROAT]
I'm Roz. Erm...
I'm 45. I have three kids.
[SIGHS]
For the past eight years,
I've worked full-time
as an office manager in Bolthurst.
Before that I was a stay-at-home mum,
which was nice.
I have a good life.
Had a good life.
Yesterday, my boss,
who's been a good friend to me,
found out that I took...
I've been taking, as in, stealing
from him and his company.
£232,648 pounds is the total
that I've taken from him.
Stole from him.
I used the money...
The vast majority of it,
I put into, erm,
into machines in betting shops.
Some of it was on online bingo
but most of it, I'd say 200 grand,
it went into machines.
I grew up, went to school,
went to college, got a job,
got a house, had kids, got a dog.
I...
I'm not anxious or depressed,
I don't drink or snort coke.
And I'm not stupid.
I'm not the cleverest person
in the world,
but I have a "B" in O Level Maths
and I know that the odds
of feeding a machine
and coming out on top are very slim.
But that is what I did.
I just started and I couldn't stop.
If you'd had told me, 10 years ago,
if you'd said
that I would wind up here,
I would have laughed in your face.
I suppose everybody has their thing.
The thing that makes them
feel something,
when they can't feel anything.
Or when they want to disappear.
And those machines, they were my thing.
I cared more about them than anything.
And if my boss, my friend,
hadn't found out,
they would still be my thing.
That's it.
I mean, that's all, really.
[SIGHS]
Just, I would say, just don't think
that this is something
that happens to other people.
You know,
other people that aren't like you,
other people different from you.
It could happen to your kid, you,
your mother, your brother.
Just don't let them near them.
Because they are evil.
That's it really, that's all.
Just...
I don't really have
anything else to say.
Would it be okay if I leave?
Yeah. [CLEARING THROAT] Yes.
[CHURCH BELL RINGING]
Well?
Know-all.
You did it.
Central College, Garmoyle, please.
You broke all the rules.
Yes, put me through, please. Thanks.
I'm only bending one.
Oh, hello. You have a student there,
called Chloe Demichelis...
The grace of our lord Jesus Christ
and the love of God and the communion
of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
ALL: And with your spirit.
MICHAEL: Brothers and sisters,
let us acknowledge our sins
and so prepare ourselves
to celebrate the sacred mysteries.
ALL: I confess to almighty God
and to you, my brothers and sisters,
that I have greatly sinned
in my thoughts and in my words,
in what I have done
and in what I have failed to do.
Through my fault, through my fault,
through my most grievous fault.
Therefore, I ask blessed Mary,
ever virgin,
all the angels and saints and you,
my brothers and sisters,
to pray for me to the Lord, our God.
FATHER MICHAEL: May almighty God
have mercy on us,
forgive us our sins and bring us
to everlasting life.
ALL: Amen.
MICHAEL: Lord, have mercy.
ALL: Lord, have mercy.
Christ, have mercy.
ALL: Christ, have mercy.
Lord, have mercy.
ALL: Lord, have mercy.
MICHAEL: I believe in God,
the Father almighty,
creator of heaven and earth,
and in Jesus Christ,
his only Son, our Lord,
who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
born of the Virgin Mary,
suffered under Pontius Pilate,
was crucified, died and was buried.
He descended into hell.
On the third day,
he rose again from the dead.
He ascended into heaven,
and is seated at the right hand
of God the Father almighty.
From there he will come to judge
the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
the holy catholic church,
the communion of saints,
the forgiveness of sins,
the resurrection of the body,
and everlasting life.
Amen.
The Lord be with you.
ALL: And with your spirit.
MICHAEL: Lift up your hearts.
ALL: We lift them up to the Lord.
MICHAEL: Let us give thanks
to the Lord, our God.
ALL: It is right and just.
Holy, holy, holy Lord God of hosts.
Heaven and earth are full of your glory.
Hosanna in the highest.
Blessed is he who comes
in the name of the Lord.
Hosanna in the highest.
Through him and with him and in him.
O God, almighty Father,
in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
all glory and honour is yours,
for ever and ever.
Amen.
At the saviour's command
and formed by divine teaching
we dare say, our Father,
who art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come,
thy will be done on earth
as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses
as we forgive those
who trespass against us.
And lead us not into temptation
but deliver us from evil.
Deliver us, Lord, we pray,
from every evil,
graciously grant peace in our days that,
by the help of your mercy,
we may be always free from sin
and safe from all distress.
[SOBBING]
MICHAEL:
As we await the blessed hope
and the coming of our saviour,
Jesus Christ.
ALL: For the kingdom, the power
and the glory are yours now and forever.
MICHAEL: Lamb of God,
you take away the sins of the world,
have mercy on us.
Lamb of God, you take away the sins
of the world, have mercy on us.
of the world, grant us peace.
-Behold the lamb of God...
-[PHONE RINGING]
Behold him who takes away
the sins of the world.
Blessed are those called
to the supper of the lamb.
Lord, I am not worthy that you should
enter under my roof
but only say the word
and my soul shall be healed.
The body of Christ.
-The body of Christ.
-Amen.
[PHONE BEEPING]
ROZ: [ON VOICEMAIL]
I changed my plans, Michael.
Worried you might intervene.
Which would have been touching
but misguided.
Bye, Michael.
♪ We are lost
♪ We are scattered
♪ We're balmy and we're battered
♪ We might be bruised
♪ But we're not broken
♪ Hallelujah
♪ We might be bruised
♪ But we're not broken ♪